docs/rules/custom/prefer-value-in-head.md, before:

# prefer-value-in-head

**Summary**: Prefer value in rule head

**Category**: Custom

**Avoid**
```rego
package policy

pin_as_number := val if {
    is_number(input.pin_code)
    val := to_number(input.pin_code)
}

deny contains message if {
    not input.user
    message := "user attribute missing from input"
}
```

**Prefer**
```rego
package policy

pin_as_number := to_number(input.pin_code) if is_number(input.pin_code)

deny contains "user attribute missing from input" if not input.user
```

## Rationale

Rules that return the value assigned in the last expression of the rule body may have the value, or the function
returning the value, moved directly to the rule head. This creates more succinct rules, and often allows for rules to be
expressed as "one-liners". This is not a general recommendation, but a style preference that a team or organization
might want to standardize on. As such, it is placed in the custom category, and must be explicitly enabled in
configuration.

The `only-scalars` configuration option may be used to only suggest moving scalar values (strings, numbers, booleans,
null) to the head, and not expressions or functions returning a value. With this option set to `true`, the following
example would be flagged:

```rego
deny contains message if {
    not input.user
    # value is a scalar
    message := "user attribute missing from input"
}
```

But not:

```rego
deny contains message if {
    not input.user
    # value returned from a function call, not suggested if `only-scalars` is set to `true`
    message := sprintf("user attribute missing from input: %v", [input])
}
```

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules:
  custom:
    prefer-value-in-head:
      # note that all rules in the "custom" category are disabled by default
      # (i.e. level "ignore")
      #
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
      # whether to only suggest moving scalar values (strings, numbers, booleans, null)
      # to the head, and not expressions or functions
      only-scalars: false
      # variable names to exempt from the rule (by default, none)
      except-var-names:
      - report
      - violation
```

## Related Resources

- GitHub: [Source Code](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/regal/blob/main/bundle/regal/rules/custom/prefer-value-in-head/prefer_value_in_head.rego)

Commit message:

Add `prefer-value-in-head` option to count interpolated string as scalar
I noticed in some rule I worked on that Regal didn't flag this, which was
right given that interpolated strings aren't exactly scalar values. But
I _do_ want to have Regal recommend moving them to the head assignment when
possible, while keeping the `only-scalars` option set as `true`. This PR
adds a new `include-interpolated` option to allow this precisely, and makes
it enabled in our own settings.

Signed-off-by: Anders Eknert <anders.eknert@apple.com>

docs/rules/custom/prefer-value-in-head.md, after:

# prefer-value-in-head

**Summary**: Prefer value in rule head

**Category**: Custom

**Avoid**

```rego
package policy

pin_as_number := val if {
    is_number(input.pin_code)
    val := to_number(input.pin_code)
}

deny contains message if {
    not input.user
    message := "user attribute missing from input"
}
```

**Prefer**

```rego
package policy

pin_as_number := to_number(input.pin_code) if is_number(input.pin_code)

deny contains "user attribute missing from input" if not input.user
```

## Rationale

Rules that return the value assigned in the last expression of the rule body may have the value, or the function
returning the value, moved directly to the rule head. This creates more succinct rules, and often allows for rules to be
expressed as "one-liners". This is not a general recommendation, but a style preference that a team or organization
might want to standardize on. As such, it is placed in the custom category, and must be explicitly enabled in
configuration.

The `only-scalars` configuration option may be used to only suggest moving scalar values (strings, numbers, booleans,
null) to the head, and not expressions or functions returning a value. With this option set to `true`, the following
example would be flagged:

```rego
deny contains message if {
    not input.user
    # value is a scalar
    message := "user attribute missing from input"
}
```

But not:

```rego
deny contains message if {
    not input.user
    # value returned from a function call, not suggested if `only-scalars` is set to `true`
    message := sprintf("user attribute missing from input: %v", [input])
}
```

The `include-interpolated` configuration option may be used to count interpolated strings as a scalar (string) values,
which will have Regal recommend moving them to the head even when `only-scalars` is set to `true`.

## Configuration Options

This linter rule provides the following configuration options:

```yaml
rules:
  custom:
    prefer-value-in-head:
      # note that all rules in the "custom" category are disabled by default
      # (i.e. level "ignore")
      #
      # one of "error", "warning", "ignore"
      level: error
      # whether to only suggest moving scalar values (strings, numbers, booleans, null)
      # to the head, and not expressions or functions
      only-scalars: false
      # when set to true, counts interpolated strings as a scalar value, and will suggest
      # moving them to the head even when `only-scalars` is true
      include-interpolated: false
      # variable names to exempt from the rule (by default, none)
      except-var-names:
        - report
        - violation
```

## Related Resources

- GitHub: [Source Code](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/regal/blob/main/bundle/regal/rules/custom/prefer-value-in-head/prefer_value_in_head.rego)
